What is Script?
Embede langauge ( a language that requires help from other language)

<script> : key identifier
1. Can be used in head as well as in body
2. prefered in body


What is document?
in terms of BOM (Browser Object Model) the content area is referd to as document
In JavaScript:  
The document object is a global object that provides methods and properties to manipulate the webpage.
Example: document.getElementById("demo") selects an element with ID demo.
Developers can change text, styles, attributes, or even add/remove elements dynamically.


Why alert box appears first?
Used to show warning

Uses ASYNC AWAIT technology


Async/Await in JavaScript is a way to handle tasks that take time (like fetching data from a server) without stopping the rest of your code. async makes a function return a Promise, and await pauses inside that function until the Promise finishes, letting your code look simple and readable while still being non-blocking.
Blocking behavior:
alert() is a synchronous, modal function. When the browser encounters it,
everything else pauses until the user clicks OK.

Execution order:  
JavaScript runs top to bottom. If an alert is encountered, 
it halts the script at that exact line. 
Any earlier code that hasn’t finished rendering or displaying will wait.

Rendering vs. execution:  
Sometimes you write code that updates the page (like document.write() or console.log()), 
but the browser may not show those changes immediately if an alert interrupts. 
The alert forces the browser to stop and show the dialog before continuing.


Why console.log ?
For developers only → It prints messages in the browser’s console (inside Developer Tools), not on the webpage.

Purpose → Helps programmers check values, debug code, and understand what’s happening while the program runs.

Non-blocking → Unlike alert(), it doesn’t stop the page or annoy the user.

Console = terminal
log = logger

to show data on server 
logger is used to know what data has been fetched from backend


What is inner HTML ?
innerHTML is a property in JavaScript that lets you get or set the HTML content inside an element.

It belongs to the DOM (Document Object Model), meaning it works on elements you select with document.


What is object?

JSON: JavaScript Object notation
{}
stores the collection of object

JSON Syntax:
Datatype JSON name = {
    key : value,
    key : value,
    key : value
}

Can be used as a local database not permanent

output of json using java:
[object Object] -> []: show collection of object in array
object: it represent Datatype
Object: Format is object type(constructor type)

#####Call Back:#####
ecma-6
A callback in JavaScript is a function passed as an argument to another function, which is executed later to complete a task or respond to an event.
What is a Callback?
A callback function is a function that you provide as an argument to another function. The receiving function decides when and how to execute the callback, either immediately or after completing a task. This mechanism allows JavaScript to handle asynchronous operations like network requests, timers, or user interactions without blocking the main program flow 
W3Schools
W3Schools
+2
.

Synchronous vs Asynchronous Callbacks
Synchronous callbacks are executed immediately within the outer function. For example, array methods like map(), filter(), and forEach() use synchronous callbacks, which block further execution until the callback completes 
W3Schools
W3Schools
+1
.
Asynchronous callbacks are executed later, often after an event occurs or an asynchronous operation finishes. Functions like setTimeout(), addEventListener(), or network requests rely on asynchronous callbacks to prevent the application from freezing while waiting for a task to complete 


1 sept

What is filter method?
The filter() method is used on arrays.
It goes through each item in the array and keeps only the items that match a condition you give it.
Think of it like a sieve or strainer: you pour everything in, but only the items that fit your rule stay in the result.

What is map method?
The map() method is used on arrays.
It goes through each item in the array and transforms it into something new, returning a new array of the same length.

👉 Think of it like a factory machine:

You put raw materials (array items) on one side.

The machine processes each item (using your function).

On the other side, you get a new product for each item.

What is reduce method?

Difference between for each loop and map?
for each just pick element whereas map picks element as well as aplly operation



3rd sept
Callback hell → async tasks are nested inside each other, creating messy pyramid‑shaped code.

Promises → flatten those steps into a clean chain using .then() and .catch().

Result → code becomes easier to read, maintain, and debug.

